Step 1: Understand what Node.js is
Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on Chrome's V8 JavaScript engine. It allows developers to write server-side JavaScript code that can run outside the browser. Node.js is often used to build scalable, real-time applications such as web servers, chat applications, and IoT applications.

Step 2: Install Node.js
To start working with Node.js, you'll need to install it on your computer. You can download the latest version of Node.js from the official website: https://nodejs.org/en/. Follow the instructions to install Node.js on your machine.

Step 3: Set up your development environment
Once you have Node.js installed, you'll need to set up your development environment. You can use any text editor or integrated development environment (IDE) to write Node.js code. Some popular choices include Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, and Atom.

Step 4: Learn JavaScript basics
Before you start working with Node.js, it's important to have a good understanding of JavaScript fundamentals such as variables, functions, objects, and control structures. There are many online resources available to learn JavaScript, including the Mozilla Developer Network (MDN) and Codecademy.

Step 5: Get familiar with Node.js modules
Node.js uses a module system to organize code into reusable components. There are built-in modules in Node.js, such as the "fs" module for working with the file system, and there are also thousands of third-party modules available through the Node Package Manager (NPM). Learn how to use modules by reading the Node.js documentation and exploring the NPM website.

Step 6: Build a simple Node.js application
To get started with building Node.js applications, try building a simple "Hello, World!" web server. Here's an example code:

javascript
Copy code
const http = require('http');

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
  res.statusCode = 200;
  res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/plain');
  res.end('Hello, World!');
});

server.listen(3000, () => {
  console.log('Server running at http://localhost:3000/');
});
Save this code to a file named server.js. Then run it from the command line by typing node server.js. Open your web browser and go to http://localhost:3000/ to see the "Hello, World!" message.

Step 7: Continue learning and practicing
Congratulations, you've built your first Node.js application! Keep learning and practicing by building more complex applications and exploring new Node.js modules. Join online communities such as Reddit and Stack Overflow to ask questions and get help from other Node.js developers.

I hope this guide helps you get started with learning Node.js. Let me know if you have any questions!